I am Vladimir Ilich Ulyanov, also known as
Lenin. I was born in Simbirsk on the Volga
River in current day Russia in 1870. I am
known as one of the leading political figures
and revolutionary thinkers of the 20th century.
I masterminded the Bolshevik take-over of
power in Russia in 1917 and was the architect
and first head of the USS.
I am from a well-educated family. I excelled
at school and went on to study law. At university,
I was exposed to radical thinking, and my
views were also influenced by the execution
of my elder brother, a member of a revolutionary
group.
Expelled from university for my radical policies,
I completed my law degree as an external student
in 1891. I moved to St Petersburg and became
a professional revolutionary. Like many of
my contemporaries, I was arrested and exiled
to Siberia. After my Siberian exile, I adopted
Lenin as pseudonym in 1901 and spent most
of the subsequent decade and a half in western
Europe, where I emerged as a prominent figure
in the international revolutionary movement
and became the leader of the 'Bolshevik' faction
of the Russian Social Democratic Worker's
Party.
In 1917, exhausted by World War One, Russia
was ripe for change. Assisted by the Germans,
I returned home and started working against
the provisional government that had overthrown
the tsarist regime. I eventually led what
was soon to be known as the October Revolution.
Almost three years of civil war followed.
The Bolsheviks were victorious and assumed
total control of the country.
During this period of revolution, war, and
famine, I demonstrated pragmatic and firm
leadership of the nation. I introduced the
New Economic Policy, where a measure of private
enterprise was permitted. In 1918, I narrowly
survived an assassination attempt, but was
severely wounded. I died in 1924 and my body
was embalmed and placed in a mausoleum on
Moscow's Red Square. Sometimes - history needs
a push. I hope my reforms have taken my beloved
nation to the top of civilizations.